This folder contains all code generated by the data from Shen et al 2018, Shen; Tempo and mode of genome evolution in the budding yeast subphylum. figshare. Dataset
url: https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Tempo_and_mode_of_genome_evolution_in_the_budding_yeast_subphylum/5854692

# blastp

`blastp_script.sh`

This contains blastp script to identify putative homologys in the 332 yeast genomes from Shen et al 2018 (PMID: 30415838)
The blast database was generated from the .fasta files downloaded from the paper's Figshare site - https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Tempo_and_mode_of_genome_evolution_in_the_budding_yeast_subphylum/5854692
The query sequence is stored S288C_YFR034C_PHO4_protein.fsa and contains a single sequence for ScPho4
I then blasted it agaisnt the entire 332 taxa_proteins.fasta using 1e and 1e-5 

The results -out in a .asn format and were formatted using blast_formatter with the following sseqid qcovs qstart qend slen sstart send qcovshsp pident mismatch evalue and -out .txt

- sseqid: Subject sequence ID. This is the identifier of the sequence in the subject database that the query sequence aligned with.
- qcovs: Query coverage per subject. It represents the percentage of the query sequence that is covered by the alignment with the subject sequence.
- qstart: Start position of the alignment on the query sequence.
- qend: End position of the alignment on the query sequence.
- slen: Length of the subject sequence.
- sstart: Start position of the alignment on the subject sequence.
- send: End position of the alignment on the subject sequence.
- qcovshsp: Query coverage per high-scoring pair. It represents the percentage of the query sequence that is covered by the high-scoring pair.
- pident: Percentage of identical matches. It represents the percentage of nucleotides or amino acids in the alignment that are identical between the query and subject sequences.
- mismatch: Number of mismatches in the alignment.
- evalue: E-value, or Expectation value. It represents the expected number of chance matches with a similar or better score that could occur in the database by random chance

The  out was further processed in R and written as csv and .xlsx
