This folder contains all code generated by the data from Shen et al 2018, Shen; Tempo and mode of genome evolution in the budding yeast subphylum. figshare. Dataset url: 
https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Tempo_and_mode_of_genome_evolution_in_the_budding_yeast_subphylum/5854692 # blastp 
1.`blastp_script.sh` This contains blastp script to identify putative homologys in the 332 yeast genomes from Shen et al 2018 (PMID: 30415838)
	The blast database was generated from the .fasta files downloaded from the paper's Figshare site - 
https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Tempo_and_mode_of_genome_evolution_in_the_budding_yeast_subphylum/5854692
	The query sequence is stored S288C_YFR034C_PHO4_protein.fsa and contains a single sequence for ScPho4
	I then blasted it agaisnt the entire 332 taxa_proteins.fasta using 1e and 1e-1

	The results -out in a .asn format and were formatted using blast_formatter with the following sseqid qcovs qstart qend slen sstart send qcovshsp pident mismatch evalue and 
-out .txt

	- sseqid: Subject sequence ID. This is the identifier of the sequence in the subject database that the query sequence aligned with.
	- qcovs: Query coverage per subject. It represents the percentage of the query sequence that is covered by the alignment with the subject          sequence.
	- qstart: Start position of the alignment on the query sequence.
	- qend: End position of the alignment on the query sequence.
	- slen: Length of the subject sequence.
	- sstart: Start position of the alignment on the subject sequence.
	- send: End position of the alignment on the subject sequence.
	- qcovshsp: Query coverage per high-scoring pair. It represents the percentage of the query sequence that is covered by the high-scoring pair.
	- pident: Percentage of identical matches. It represents the percentage of nucleotides or amino acids in the alignment that are identical          between the query and subject sequences.
	- mismatch: Number of mismatches in the alignment.
	- evalue: E-value, or Expectation value. It represents the expected number of chance matches with a similar or better score that could occur in     the database by random chance. The out was further processed in R and written as csv and .xlsx 
2. `retrieve_sequences.sh` This script accepts an input file which contains only the species names and sequence identifiers from the blastp hits and retrives each Pho4 corresponding .fasta sequence
	  from the target .fasta file "343taxa-protein-homologs.fas". The seqeunces can be combined using the simple "cat" command 
3. `20240117-hmmsearch-bHLH-Pho4-blast-hits.sh` The hmmsearch searches a profile against a sequence database. We sort to confirm if all the .fas sequence contain the PF00010.hmm (Pho4 bHLH) domain as quality control 
4.`20240124-hmmscan-Pfam-Pho4-blast-hits.sh`. This script searches for putative curated ScPho4 orthologs against Pfam using HMMER and checks for     the presence of the S. cerevisiae
  	Pho4 bHLH domain, as well as returns any other hits.
	.sh assumes that hmmer has beeen installed locally, if not check http://eddylab.org/software/hmmer/Userguide.pdf
	  Also, the Pfam data base has been downloaded and hmmpress to create binary files for hmmscan 
5. Pho4_ortholog exploration.Rmd. Contains all the R code used in     processing the out data
